.TH kopano\-dbadm 8 "2018-04-11" "Kopano 8" "Kopano Groupware Core reference"
.SH Name
kopano\-dbadm \(em database administration utility
.SH Synopsis
\fBkopano\-dbadm\fP [\fB\-c\fP \fIserver.cfg\fP] [\fB\-j\fP \fIjobs\fP]
\fIaction\fP...
.SH Description
.PP
This tool is for special surgical tasks on the Kopano SQL database.
\fBkopano\-server ought to be stopped when running this utility\fP, unless
otherwise noted. You should make a database backup first.
.SH Options
.TP
\fB\-c\fP \fIserver.cfg\fP
By default, kopano\-dbadm will read /etc/kopano/server.cfg for MySQL
connection parameters, but an alternate file may be specified.
.TP
\fB\-j\fP \fIjobs\fP
Specifies an upper limit on the number of SQL queries running simultaneously.
This may improve or worsen the overall time to process ALTER statements,
depending on the underlying storage of the SQL database.
The default is \fI1\fP.
.SH Actions
.SS index\-tags
.PP
Create helper indices for the "tag" columns. This action can be executed while
kopano\-server is active.
.SS k\-1216
.PP
This is an alias for the combination of: index\-tags, np\-remove\-highid,
np\-remove\-unused, np\-repair\-dups, np\-defrag, rm\-helper\-index. It may be
used to address the K-1216 issue that kopano\-server(8) may report when
performing a schema update. If the tag indices already exist, harmless warnings
will be shown by kopano\-dbadm, but the indices will be used and left as-is
after the k\-1216 action is done.
.SS kc\-1375
.PP
Deletes all cached IMAP Envelopes that show signs of having address lists with
excess parentheses. This action can be executed while kopano\-server is active.
If you do so, also execute `kopano\-srvadm \-\-clear\-cache=cell` afterwards.
.SS kc\-1444
.PP
Synchronizes all PR_MESSAGE_FLAGS values from the "properties" to the
"tproperties" table. This action can be executed while kopano\-server
is active. If you do so, execute `kopano\-srvadm
\-\-clear\-cache=cell` afterwards.
.SS kf\-2888
.PP
Fixes corruption in the stores.guid column by copying back by re-extracting the
store GUIDs from the PR_ENTRYID of the store object.
.SS np\-defrag
.PP
Compact the ID space in the namedproperties table and lowers the
AUTO_INCREMENT value, thereby making IDs actually usable after a remove
operation (such as np\-remove\-xh).
.SS np\-remove\-highid
.PP
Remove all named property mappings with internal ID higher than 31485. As
Kopano/Zarafa MAPI clients cannot handle these IDs anyway, the IDs are never
used to store any data and only occupy the ID space needlessy.
.SS np\-remove\-unused
.PP
Remove all named property mappings that have zero use counts in other tables.
.SS np\-remove\-xh
.PP
kopano\-dagent(8) used to index all X-Headers from Internet e-mails by default,
but administrators may not have needed this information in the first place. By
using np\-remove\-xh, all named properties whose name starts with "X\-" and
have GUID=PS_INTERNET_HEADERS are removed. Afterwards, `kopano\-dbadm
np\-defrag` should be run.
.SS np\-repair\-dups
.PP
Repairs duplicate named properties (only IDs below or equal to 31485).
.SS np\-stat
.PP
Show statistics for the namedproperties table. This action can be executed
while kopano\-server is active.
.SS populate
.PP
Create and populate the server database as specified in the configuration file.
kopano-server normally does this itself if it detects an empty database. When,
however, an SQL application layer gateway is used that prevents DDL statements,
calling dbadm populate (with a separate config file specifying not the gateway,
but rather the origin server) can be used.
.SS rm\-helper\-index
.PP
Remove helper indices again. This action can be executed while kopano\-server
is active.
.SS usmp
.PP
This is an alias for the combination of: usmp\-shrink\-columns, usmp\-charset.
.SS usmp-charset
.PP
Convert the database to utf8mb4 to support the Unicode Supplemental Plane,
better known for Emoji characters. This action can be executed while
kopano\-server is active, though the SQL server may queue/block
database write operations, rendering the server practically
unavailable.
.SS usmp-shrink-columns
.PP
A number of table columns will be shrunk to accommodate certain MySQL index
limits. This action can be executed while kopano\-server is active,
though the SQL server may queue/block database write operations,
rendering the server practically unavailable.
.SH Performance
.PP
Totally depends on the amount of data that needs to be moved. MySQL also seems
to process the requests single-threadedly.
.PP
An approximate row count of a table can be retrieved with \fBSHOW TABLE STATUS
LIKE "\fP\fIproperties\fP\fB"\fP. For an exact count, use \fBSELECT COUNT(*)
FROM `\fP\fIproperties\fP\fB`\fP.
.SS index\-tags
.PP
System: 16-thr Ryzen 1700X, 64 GB memory, 2-disk RAID-1 Toshiba XG5 NVMe, Linux
5.0, mariadb 10.2, filesystem yields 430 MiB/s sequential read speed, 130 MiB/s
sequential write speed.
.PP
Database: 8.9 GiB, properties: 17.78M rows, tproperties: 13.22M, mvproperties:
10.3K, indexedproperties: 445K, singleinstances: 228K rows.
.PP
dbadm index\-tags \-j1: completed in 48s. top(1) reported system load 1.25 with
mysqld using 100% CPU (ceiling 1600%). This operation was CPU-bound.
.PP
dbadm index\-tags \-j6: completed in 27s.
.SS k\-1216
.PP
System: 12-thr i7-3930K, 64 GB memory, 2-disk RAID-1 SATA SSD, Linux 4.18ish,
mariadb 10.x.
.PP
Database: 4.96 GiB, properties: 12.94M rows, tproperties: 9.65M,
mvproperties: 9.9K, indexedproperties: 3.24M, singleinstances: 188K, names: 2988
rows.
.PP
dbadm k\-1216: 2 minutes indexing
.PP
dbadm np\-remove\-xh np\-defrag: 5 1/2 minutes.
.SS usmp-charset
.PP
Same 1700X/XG5/8.9GiB/17.78M.
.PP
dbadm usmp\-charset \-j1: completed in 5m42s. top(1) reported system load 1.56,
with mysqld using 55-70% CPU use. So this operation was waiting on I/O.
.PP
dbadm usmp\-charset \-j2: completed in 6m38s, as there was nothing more to be
gained from the I/O.
.PP
usmp\-charset \-j2 on tmpfs: 3m13s.
.SH See also
.PP
\fBkopano\-server.cfg\fP(5)
