.TH kopano\-storeadm 8 "2018-01-11" "Kopano 8" "Kopano Groupware Core reference"
.SH Name
kopano\-storeadm \(em store management utility
.SH Synopsis
\fBkopano\-storeadm\fP {\fB\-A\fP
\fIguid\fP|\fB\-C\fP|\fB\-D\fP|\fB\-M\fP|\fB\-O\fP|\fB\-P\fP|\fB\-R\fP
\fIguid\fP|\fB\-V\fP} [\fB\-c\fP \fIfile\fP] [\fB\-h\fP \fIuri\fP] [\fB\-k\fP
\fIcompany\fP] [\fB\-n\fP \fIname\fP] [\fB\-p\fP] [\fB\-t\fP
{\fBuser\fP|\fBarchive\fP|\fBgroup\fP|\fBcompany\fP}]
.SH Description
.PP
This tool is used to manage message stores on the Kopano server. Specifically,
it allows one to create, delete, attach, detach such stores. The storage server
must be running for kopano-storeadm to work.
.SH Options
.TP
\fB\-A\fP \fIguid\fP
Does one of two things. With \fB\-n\fP, an orphaned store is attached (hooked)
to the account specified with \fB\-n\fP. If the target user already has a store
attached, that one will be detached first.
Alternatively, when \fB\-p\fP is used, an orphaned store is copied. See the
\fB\-p\fP option for details.
.TP
\fB\-C\fP
Create a new store and attach it to the user account specified with \fB\-n\fP.
That account must not have an associated store yet.
.TP
\fB\-D\fP
Detach (unhook) the store from the user account specified with \fB\-n\fP.
.TP
\fB\-M\fP
Lists all mailboxes (stores) the server knows about.
.TP
\fB\-O\fP
Shows a list of stores that are not hooked to any user. The GUIDs shown in the
output can be passed to \fB\-A\fP or \fB\-R\fP.
.TP
\fB\-P\fP
Create a public store. Only one public store can be created.
.TP
\fB\-R\fP \fIguid\fP
Remove an orphaned store. It actually only marks it as deleted in the database
and the softdelete mechanism will remove it later on.
.TP
\fB\-V\fP
Display the program version.
.TP
\fB\-c\fP \fIconfig-file\fP
Location of a config file to read.
.PP
Default: \fI/etc/kopano/admin.cfg\fP
.TP
\fB\-h\fP \fIhost\fP
URI for a specific server to connect to and execute the action on.
.PP
Default: \fIdefault:\fP
.TP
\fB\-k\fP \fIcompany-name\fP
This sets the company name for the \fB\-P\fP action. This option is only
available for multi-tenancy Kopano.
.TP
\fB\-l\fP \fIlocale\fP
When creating a new store with \fB\-C\fP or \fB\-P\fP, the standard folders
like Inbox, Drafts, Sent Items, etc. will be translated into the chosen
language. A locale name is typically of the form
\fIlanguage\fP[\fB_\fP\fIterritory\fP], where \fIlanguage\fP is an ISO-639
language code, and \fIterritory\fP is an ISO-3166 country code, but inherently
these are system-specific. On Linux systems, see locale(1) for details.
.TP
\fB\-n\fP \fIentity-name\fP
For \fB\-C\fP and \fB\-D\fP, specifies the user to work on.
For \fB\-A\fP, specifies the user name, group name or company name to operate
on. The store type may need to be specified with \fB\-t\fP if the implicit
default "\fBuser\fP" is not appropriate.
.TP
\fB\-p\fP
For use with \fB\-A\fP.  Rather than attaching an orphaned store to a user
account, copy the orphaned store's contents into "Public Store\\Admin\\Deleted
User - username".  The orphaned store is left unmodified.
.TP
\fB\-t\fP {\fBuser\fP|\fBarchive\fP|\fBgroup\fP|\fBcompany\fP}
The store type for the entity specified with \fB\-n\fP. If not specified,
\fB\-t user\fP is implicitly assumed. (This option only has an effect when used
with \fB\-A\fP or \fB\-D\fP.)
.SH Examples
.IP \(bu 4
Create new store for user: kopano\-storeadm \-Cn user1
.IP \(bu 4
Create new store with German names: kopano\-storeadm \-Cn user1 \-l de_DE
.IP \(bu 4
Attach orphaned store to user: kopano\-storeadm \-A 24680B \-n user2
.IP \(bu 4
Copy orphaned store to public: kopano\-storeadm \-A 24680B \-p
.IP \(bu 4
Detach store from user: kopano\-storeadm \-Dn user2
.IP \(bu 4
Remove store: kopano\-storeadm \-R 24680B
.IP \(bu 4
Create pubilc store: kopano\-storeadm \-P
.SH Configuration file
.PP
Normally, no configuration file is used or required. If the file
\fB/etc/kopano/admin.cfg\fP exists, it is used. The following options can be
set in the configuration file:
.SS default_store_locale
.PP
New folders being created as part of the initial store creation (see \-C) will
use the language of the locale. A suitable locale string is in the form of an
ISO 639 code for the language, followed by an underscore, followed by an ISO
3166 code for the region, e.g. de_DE, en_US, etc.
.PP
Default: \fI(empty)\fP
.SS server_socket
.PP
URI for the connection to the Kopano server.
.PP
Default: (localhost connection via socket)
.SS sslkey_file
.PP
Use this file as key to logon to the server. This is only used when server_socket is set to
an HTTPS transport. See the kopano-server(8) manual page on how to setup SSL keys.
.SS sslkey_pass
.PP
The password of the SSL key file that is set in sslkey_file.
