.TH kopano\-oof 1 2018-01-11 "Kopano 8" "Kopano Core user reference"
.SH NAME
kopano\-oof \(em Control a user/store's Out Of Office settings
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBkopano\-oof\fP [\fB\-Px\fP] [\fB\-h\fP \fIuri\fP] [\fB\-m\fP
{\fB0\fP|\fB1\fP}] [\fB\-n\fP \fImsgfile\fP] [\fB\-s\fP \fIsslkeyfile\fP]
[\fB\-t\fP \fIsubject\fP] [\fB\-u\fP \fIusername\fP] [\fB\-\-from\fP
\fIiso8601\fP] [\fB\-\-until\fP \fIiso8601\fP]
.SH Description
.PP
This program can be used to change and/or display a user's Out Of Office
("OOF") settings. These settings control whether kopano\-dagent(8) will, within
a certain timeframe, send an automated reply to all incoming messages.
kopano\-spooler(8) can also use the OOF settings to apply special handling,
such as forwarding a message to an alternate account if the original recipient
has OOF active. The storage server must be running for \fBkopano\-oof\fP to
function.
.PP
After potentially updating OOF settings with \fB\-m\fP, \fB\-\-from\fP etc.,
kopano\-oof will always output the current/new state of OOF settings in JSON
format.
.SH Options
.TP
\fB\-h\fP \fIuri\fP
Connect to the given storage server. By default, the local standard Kopano
instance is contacted.
.TP
\fB\-m\fP, \fB\-\-mode\fP {\fB0\fP|\fB1\fP}
Clears or sets the Out Of Office flag of the user store. 0 disables it, 1
enables it. When enabled, daemons like kopano\-dagent(8) and kopano\-spooler(8)
will, when processing a message, evaluate the OOF time constraints
(independetly set with further options).
.TP
\fB\-n\fP, \fB\-\-message\fP \fIfile\fP
Update the message body for Out Of Office messages to the contents of the
specified file. The encoding of the file is expected to be in the current
environment's charset (LC_CTYPE variable).
.TP
\fB\-s\fP, \fB\-\-sslkey\-file\fP \fIfile\fP
Read the specified certificate file and use it during connecting to the storage
server.
.TP
\fB\-t\fP, \fB\-\-subject\fP \fItext\fP
Update the subject line for Out Of Office messages to the given text.
The encoding of the text is expected to be in the environment's charset.
.TP
\fB\-P\fP
Interactively prompt for the SSL keyfile password. If neither \fB\-P\fP nor
\fP\-p\fP are specified, kopano\-oof will look for a password in the
OOF_SSL_PASSWORD environment variable.
.TP
\fB\-p\fP \fIpassword\fP
This option is provided for compatibility with kopano\-set\-oof(1). You should
use the \fBOOF_SSL_PASSWORD\fP environment variable instead to pass the SSL
certificate password, because passwords may be visisble in the output of ps(1).
.TP
\fB\-u\fP, \fB\-\-user\fP \fIusername\fP
Edit the Out Of Office settings for the user's default store.
.TP
\fB\-x\fP
Prompt for the user account password. If this option is not specified,
kopano\-oof will look for a password in the \fBOOF_PASSWORD\fP environment
variable. If no password was specified in any way (\fB\-x\fP, \fB\-p\fP,
environment variables), kopano\-oof will log in with the "SYSTEM" account,
which requires appropriate privileges. Confer with the "local_admin_users"
directive in kopano-server.cfg(5).
.TP
\fB\-\-dump\-json\fP
This option is ignored for compatibility with kopano\-set\-oof(1). JSON data is
always emitted, both when the settings have changed and when they are
unmodified.
.TP
\fB\-\-from\fP \fIYYYY-mm-dd HH:MM\fP
Limit the Out Of Office mechanism such that it is not active if the time of
processing a message is before the specified timepoint. The format to use as
argument is to be in the form of "2015\-04\-01 23:50" (ISO\-8601\-like). The
timepoint is interpreted to be in the current environment's timezone (TZ
variable).
.TP
\fB\-\-to\fP \fIYYYY\-mm\-dd HH:MM\fP
Limit the Out Of Office mechanism such that it is not active if the time of
processing a message is after this timepoint. The format is the same as for
\fB\-\-from\fP. Alternatively, the special value "\fBinfinite\fP" may be used
to denote that OOF is open-ended.
.SH JSON output
.PP
.nf
{
        "active" : false,
        "from" : "2019-01-01 00:00:00",
        "set" : true,
        "subject" : "outtahere",
        "until" : "infinite"
}
.fi
.PP
\fBset\fP represents whether the Out Of Office feature has been enabled at all.
\fBfrom\fP and \fBuntil\fP specify the time range in which OOF will be
considered active (if and only if it is enabled) by dagent, spooler, and so on.
The special value "infinite" expresses that it is open-ended. The \fBactive\fP
flag indicates whether OOF is active right now given these conditions.
\fBsubject\fP and \fBmessage\fP contain the OOF message subject and body data.
.SH Usage examples
.PP
Non-SSL login with password, and enabling OOF over a certain period,
sourcing the body text from a file:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
OOF_PASSWORD=xfoo kopano\-oof -u foo -m 1 -t "Outta here for a while" --from
"2017-12-23 00:00" --until "2018-01-02 00:00" --message long_explanation.txt
.fi
.RE
.PP
Pseudo-disablement of one's mailbox:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
kopano\-oof -u foo -m 1 -t "Dunno when I return" --from "2019-01-01 00:00"
--until infinite
.fi
.RE
.PP
Enable out of office message of mailbox user1 with subject "test" and body from
file /tmp/oof-message in a multi-server-environment:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
OOF_SSL_PASSWORD=password kopano\-oof \-u user1 \-m 1 \-t test --message
/tmp/oof-message --host https://localhost:237/ --sslkey-file
/etc/kopano/ssl/client.pem
.fi
.RE
