.TH "KOPANO\-GATEWAY" "8" "November 2016" "Kopano 8" "Kopano Core user reference"
.\" http://bugs.debian.org/507673
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el       .ds Aq '
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
kopano-gateway \- Start the Kopano IMAP/POP3 Gateway.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP \w'\fBkopano\-gateway\fR\ 'u
\fBkopano\-gateway\fR [\fIOPTION\fR...]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The gateway enables other e-mail clients to connect through POP3 or IMAP to the storage server to read their e-mail. With IMAP, it is also possible to view the contents of other folders and subfolders. The gateway can be configured to listen for POP3, POP3S, IMAP and/or IMAPS.
.PP
The default settings of the gateway program are defined in
\fBkopano-gateway.cfg\fR(5).
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
Various options are possible. None of these options are required.
.PP
.PP
\fB\-\-config\fR, \fB\-c\fR \fIgateway.cfg\fR
.RS 4
Specify the location of the gateway.cfg file. If the gateway.cfg file is not specified, the gateway will continue using its default settings.
.sp
Default:
\fI/etc/kopano/gateway.cfg\fR
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-dump\-config\fP
.RS 4
Displays the values of \fBgateway.cfg\fP configuration parameters and the
implied defaults.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-host\fR, \fB\-h\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Connect to the storage server through
\fIpath\fR, e.g.
file:///path/to/socket. Default:
file:///var/run/kopano/server.sock. Overrides the config file setting.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-F\fP
.RS 4
Run in the foreground. Normally the gateway will daemonize and run in the background.
.RE
.SH "SIGNALS"
.PP
The following signals can be sent to the kopano\-gateway process:
.PP
\fBHUP\fR
.RS 4
When the HUP signal is received, some options from the configuration file are reloaded. The reloadable options are listed in the
\fBkopano-gateway.cfg\fR(5)
manual page.
.sp
Also, when using
\fIlog_method = file\fR, the logfile will be closed and a new logfile will be opened. You can use this signal in your logrotate system.
.RE
.PP
\fBTERM\fR
.RS 4
To gracefully let the service exit, the normal TERM signal is used.
.RE
.SH "USAGE"
.PP
To start the gateway:
.PP
\fBkopano\-gateway\fR
.PP
The gateway process will keep running. You may also use the init.d scripts:
.PP
\fB/etc/init.d/kopano\-gateway\fR
[\fIstart\fR|
\fIstop\fR|
\fIrestart\fR]
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fBkopano-gateway.cfg\fR(5),
\fBkopano-server\fR(8)
