.TH kopano\-statsd 8 "2018-10-05" "Kopano 8" "Kopano Groupware Core reference"
.SH Name
kopano\-statsd \(em statistics collection daemon
.SH Synopsis
\fBkopano\-statsd\fP [\fB\-c\fP \fIconfigfile\fP]
.SH Description
.PP
This service receives statistics submissions from kopano-dagent, kopano-spooler
and kopano-server and stores them in a round-robin database from which graphs
can be created at a later time with rrdgraph(1).
.PP
PNG image creation is not part of kopano-statsd. This is presently left in the
hands of the administrator, because styling is a user preference, and because
some environments may want to use an on-demand _or_ a gratitious periodic image
generation, depending on the system's purpose and expected performance
characteristics.
.SH Options
.TP
\fB\-c\fP \fIconfigfile\fP
Load an alternate config file. If none is specified, statsd.cfg will be sourced
if available.
.SH Configuration file
.PP
The format of the configuration file follows the same key=value scheme from
other Kopano config files.
.SS stats_listen
.PP
One address:port specifier for where the service should listen for connections.
listen for connections. IPv6 addresses need to be enclosed in square brackets
(as in \fB[2001:db8::1]:236\fP). The asterisk denotes the network layer
multi-protocol (IPv4/IPv6) address ("*:8001"). Local sockets are supported with
"\fBunix:\fP\fI/path\fP". Hostnames are not allowed.
.PP
Default: \fIunix:/var/run/kopano/statsd.sock\fP
.SS stats_rrd
.PP
Directory where round-robin database files are kept.
.PP
Default: \fI/var/lib/kopano/rrd\fP
.SS run_as_user, run_as_group
.PP
User identity to switch to on startup.
.PP
Default: \fIkopano\fP, \fIkopano\fP
.SS coredump_enabled
.PP
When a crash occurs or an assertion fails, a coredump file can be generated by
the system for use with a crash report. For details, see the
\fBkopano\-coredump\fP(5) manpage.
.PP
Default: \fIsystemdefault\fP
