.TH kopano\-vcfimport 1 2019-10-09 "Kopano 8" "Kopano Core user references"
.SH Name
.PP
kopano\-vcfimport \(em contact/event importer
.SH Synopsis
.PP
\fBkopano\-vcfimport\fP [\fB\-\-calendar\fP|\fB\-\-contact\fP] [\fB\-Px\fP]
[\fB\-h\fP \fIuri\fP] [\fB\-s\fP \fIsslkeyfile\fP] [\fB\-u\fP \fIusername\fP]
[\fIfile\fP...]
.SH Description
.PP
This program can be used to import contacts from one or more vCard
(.vcf) files into a user's contact folder (personal address book).
It also supports importing events from one or more iCalendar (.ics)
files into a user's calendar. If no files are given, input is read from
standard input.
.SH Options
.TP
\fB\-\-calendar\fP
Treat all the input as iCalendar data.
.TP
\fB\-\-contact\fP
Treat all the input as vCard data.
.TP
\fB\-h\fP \fIuri\fP
Connect to the given storage server. By default, the local standard Kopano
instance is contacted.
.TP
\fB\-P\fP
Interactively prompt for the SSL keyfile password. If not specified, the
SSL_PASSWORD environment variable will be used.
.TP
\fB\-s\fP, \fB\-\-sslkey\-file\fP \fIfile\fP
Read the specified certificate file and use it during connecting to the storage
server.
.TP
\fB\-u\fP, \fB\-\-user\fP \fIusername\fP
The username for the mailbox to operate on.
.TP
\fB\-x\fP
Interactively prompt for the user account password. If not used, the
\fBPASSWORD\fP environment variable will be sourced.
.SH Usage examples
.PP
Non-SSL login with password, importing two vCard files.
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
PASSWORD=foo kopano\-vcfimport \-\-contact \-u user1 a.vcf b.vcf
.fi
.RE
