.TH "kopano\-statsd.cfg" "5" "2019" "Kopano 8" "Kopano Groupware Core user reference"
.\" http://bugs.debian.org/507673
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el       .ds Aq '
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH Name
kopano\-statsd.cfg \(em Configuration file for kopano-statsd
.SH Description
.PP
The file consists of a single section. The parameters are written in the form:
.PP
\fBname\fP = \fIvalue\fP
.PP
The file is line-based. Each newline-terminated line represents either a
comment, nothing, a parameter or a directive. A line beginning with \fB#\fP is
considered a comment, and will be ignored. Parameter names are case-sensitive.
Lines beginning with \fB!\fP are directives.
.PP
Directives are written in the form:
.PP
!\fBdirective\fP \fI[argument(s)]\fP
.PP
The following directives exist:
.PP
\fBinclude\fR
.RS 4
Include and process
\fIargument\fR
.PP
Example: \fB!include common.cfg\fP
.SH Parameters
.SS stats_listen
.PP
One address:port specifier for where the service should listen for connections.
listen for connections. IPv6 addresses need to be enclosed in square brackets
(as in \fB[2001:db8::1]:236\fP). The asterisk denotes the network layer
multi-protocol (IPv4/IPv6) address ("*:8001"). Local sockets are supported with
"\fBunix:\fP\fI/path\fP". Hostnames are not allowed (as they are susceptible to
address changes).
.PP
An interface name may be appended to the address with a percent sign to make
use of the Linux-specific SO_BINDTODEVICE socket option, e.g.
"[fe80::1]%eth0:32000").
.PP
Default: \fIunix:/var/run/kopano/statsd.sock\fP
.SS stats_rrd
.PP
Directory where round-robin database files are kept.
.PP
Default: \fI/var/lib/kopano/rrd\fP
.SS run_as_user, run_as_group
.PP
User/group identity to switch to on startup. Can be user/group name or numeric
UID/GID. The log file and directory need to be writeable by this user.
.PP
Default user: \fIkopano\fP
.PP
Default group: \fIkopano\fP
.SS coredump_enabled
.PP
When a crash occurs or an assertion fails, a coredump file can be generated by
the system for use with a crash report. For details, see the
\fBkopano\-coredump\fP(5) manpage.
.PP
Default: \fIsystemdefault\fP
.SH See also
.PP
\fBkopano\-statsd\fP(8)
