.TH "KOPANO" "7" "November 2016" "Kopano 8" "Kopano Core user reference"
.\" http://bugs.debian.org/507673
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el       .ds Aq '
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
kopano \- Kopano server overview.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
Kopano is a full-featured e-mail and groupware solution, focused towards clients using the MAPI standard. The Kopano suite consists of the following parts:
.PP
kopano\-server
.RS 4
The main server process, accepting client connections, and managing storage and retrieval of data from the database.
.RE
.PP
kopano\-spooler
.RS 4
The outgoing e-mail spooler. This service makes sure that e-mails sent by clients are converted to internet e-mail and forwarded to an SMTP server.
.RE
.PP
kopano\-dagent
.RS 4
The Kopano delivery agent is called by your MTA to deliver an incoming e-mail message into a user's inbox.
.RE
.PP
kopano\-admin
.RS 4
The admin program can be started from the command line to perform various administrational tasks such add creating users, and managing groups.
.RE
.PP
kopano\-monitor
.RS 4
The monitor server process monitors user stores for quota limits. When a user goes over the warning quota level, kopano\-monitor will issue a warning e-mail.
.RE
.PP
kopano\-gateway
.RS 4
The gateway server process enables POP3 and/or IMAP connectivity to the storage server. Users with other non\-Outlook or webaccess clients can still retrieve their e-mail from the server.
.RE
.PP
kopano\-passwd
.RS 4
The passwd program can be started from the command line to update the user password when the server is running with dbplugin.
.RE
.PP
kopano\-fsck
.RS 4
The fsck program can be started from the command line to check and possibly fix broken items in your calendar or tasks folder.
.RE
.PP
kopano\-backup
.RS 4
The backup tool creates an incremental dump of a store. The data can be restored by the same tool. This tool can be used as a brick\-level\-backup. From a performance point of view it might not make sense to be used as a disaster\-recovery tool.
.RE
.PP
kopano\-ical
.RS 4
The iCal/CalDAV gateway enables users to retrieve their own Kopano calendar using the iCalendar standard.
.RE
.PP
kopano\-stats
.RS 4
A simple program that dumps some statistics the kopano\-server program collects.
.RE
.PP
kopano\-cfgchecker
.RS 4
This program tests for common configuration errors for a given config file.
.RE
.PP
kopano\-search
.RS 4
The kopano\-search daemon is used to index all messages for all users in the kopano\-server. Indexing messages greatly enhances the search performance of the kopano\-server.
.RE
.SH Environment variables
.SS KOPANO_CLIENT_LOGLEVEL
.PP
The initial loglevel and bitmask for all KC programs.
.PP
Possible severity levels:
.IP \(bu 4
\fB0\fP (nothing)
.IP \(bu 4
\fB1\fP (fatal conditions)
.IP \(bu 4
\fB2\fP (error or worse)
.IP \(bu 4
\fB3\fP (warning or worse)
.IP \(bu 4
\fB4\fP (notice or worse)
.IP \(bu 4
\fB5\fP (info or worse)
.IP \(bu 4
\fB6\fP (debug or worse)
.PP
Possible additional subsystem bits that can be ORed with the level:
.IP \(bu 4
\fB0x10000\fP (SQL)
.IP \(bu 4
\fB0x20000\fP (userplugin)
.IP \(bu 4
\fB0x40000\fP (cache)
.IP \(bu 4
\fB0x80000\fP (usercache)
.IP \(bu 4
\fB0x100000\fP (soap)
.IP \(bu 4
\fB0x200000\fP (ics)
.IP \(bu 4
\fB0x400000\fP (search)
.IP \(bu 4
\fB0x800000\fP (sync)
.PP
Default: \fB4\fP
.PP
Example: \fB0x800006\fP
.SS KOPANO_CONFIG_PATH
.PP
The default location configuration files will be looked up in unless overriden
by other program logic, such as command-line options (e.g. `kopano-server \-c`
has higher precedence over KOPANO_CONFIG_PATH).
.SS KOPANO_SOCKET
.PP
The default socket URI that is used for all MAPI connections unless overridden
by other program logic, such as command-line options (e.g. `kopano-admin \-h`
has higher precedence over KOPANO_SOCKET).
.PP
Default: \fB/etc/kopano\fP
.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP
Written by Kopano.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fBkopano-server\fR(8),
\fBkopano-spooler\fR(8),
\fBkopano-dagent\fR(8),
\fBkopano-admin\fR(8),
\fBkopano-monitor\fR(8),
\fBkopano-gateway\fR(8),
\fBkopano-passwd\fR(1),
\fBkopano-fsck\fR(1),
\fBkopano-backup\fR(8),
\fBkopano-ical\fR(8),
\fBkopano-stats\fR(1),
\fBkopano-cfgchecker\fR(8),
\fBkopano-search\fR(8),
\fBmapi\fP(7)
