.TH "KOPANO\-MIGRATION\-PST" "8" "November 2016" "Kopano 8" "Kopano Core user reference"
.\" http://bugs.debian.org/507673
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el       .ds Aq '
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
kopano-migration-pst \- Utility to import PST files into Kopano
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP \w'\fBkopano\-migration\-pst\fR\ 'u
\fBkopano\-migration\-pst\fR [\fIOPTION\fR...] [\fIPATH\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
kopano\-migration\-pst is a utility to import PST files into Kopano. As PST files are basically MAPI dumps, and Kopano also uses MAPI internally, there should be practically no data loss, even including calendar data.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
\fB\-\-auth\-pass\fR, \fB\-P\fR \fIPASS\fR
.RS 4
Authenticate with specified password.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-auth\-user\fR, \fB\-U\fR \fINAME\fR
.RS 4
Authenticate as specified user.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-clean\-folders\fR
.RS 4
Empty target folders before importing into them.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-create\-ex\-mapping\fR \fIFILE\fR
.RS 4
Create a JSON file with a mapping of legacyExchangeDN to a found email address. For migrating Exchange generated PST's which include a legacyExchangeDN instead of an email address in the from and sender properties. This generated mapping can be passed to --ex-mapping when importing a PST. Multiple PST files can be provided to generate the mapping file.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-config\fR, \fB\-c\fR \fIFILE\fR
.RS 4
Load configuration settings from specified file.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-dismiss\-reminders\fR
.RS 4
Dismiss reminders for events in the past.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-folder\fR, \fB\-f\fR \fIPATH\fR
.RS 4
Import only folder(s) with specified path(s).
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-import\-root\fR \fIPATH\fR
.RS 4
Import data under folder with specific path (or name).
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-index\fR
.RS 4
List messages/items contained in specified PST file.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-log\-level\fR, \fB\-l\fR \fINAME\fR
.RS 4
Specify log\-level, for example, \*(Aqerror\*(Aq, \*(Aqwarning\*(Aq \*(Aqinfo\*(Aq or \*(Aqdebug\*(Aq.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-ex\-mapping\fR \fIFILE\fR
.RS 4
Use a mapping file to look up an email address for items with only a legacyExchangeDN.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-nid\fR \fINID\fR
.RS 4
Import a specific nid, nid's are shown when importing a PST with log level \*(Aqdebug\*(Aq.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-server\-socket\fR, \fB\-s\fR \fISOCKET\fR
.RS 4
Connect to storage server through specified socket.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-ssl\-key\fR, \fB\-k\fR \fIFILE\fR
.RS 4
Specify SSL key file.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-ssl\-pass\fR, \fB\-p\fR \fIPASSWORD\fR
.RS 4
Specify SSL key password.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-stats\fR
.RS 4
List folders contained in specified PST file.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-store\fR, \fB\-S\fR \fIGUID\fR
.RS 4
GUID of store where to import specified PST file (or "public" to import to public store).
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-summary\fR
.RS 4
Display a summary of the amount of folders, items and attachments for a given PST.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-user\fR, \fB\-u\fR \fINAME\fR
.RS 4
Name of user for who to import the specified PST file.
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
Import PST file name "outlook.pst" to store of user "bert":
.PP
\fBkopano\-migration\-pst \-u bert outlook.pst\fR
.PP
Import PST file name "public.pst" into (new or existing) "imported" folder of public store:
.PP
\fBkopano\-migration\-pst \-S public --import-root=imported public.pst\fR
