.TH "KOPANO\-SEARCH" "8" "November 2016" "Kopano 8" "Kopano Core user reference"
.\" http://bugs.debian.org/507673
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el       .ds Aq '
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
kopano-search \- Kopano Indexed Search Service.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP \w'\fBkopano\-search\fR\ 'u
\fBkopano\-search\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The kopano\-search daemon is used to index all messages for all users in the kopano\-server. Indexing messages greatly enhances the search performance of the kopano\-server.
.PP
After starting, the search daemon will continuously update the store index files and will keep listening for connections on the configured TCP port and/or Unix socket for search requests from the
\fBkopano-server\fR(8).
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
The Kopano search program takes the following configuration options:
.PP
\fB\-\-config\fR, \fB\-c\fR \fIfile\fR
.RS 4
Specify the location of the configuration file.
.sp
Default:
\fI/etc/kopano/search.cfg\fR
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-server\-socket\fR, \fB\-s\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Connect to the storage server through
\fIpath\fR, e.g.
file:///path/to/socket. Default:
file:///var/run/kopano/server.sock.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-reindex\fR \fIuser/store\fR
.RS 4
Remove the current index of the given user or store and start to make a new index immediately.
.sp
Use in combination with \fB\-u\fP or \fB\-S\fP to specify one or more users or stores.
.sp
The kopano\-search daemon must already be running on the same machine.
.RE
.PP
When invoked with no options, the kopano\-search daemon will search for a configuration file in
/etc/kopano/search.cfg. If no configuration file is found, default values are used. See
\fBkopano-search.cfg\fR(5)
for all configuration options and their default values.
.SH "USAGE"
.PP
Starting the kopano\-search daemon with an alternative configuration:
.PP
\fBkopano\-search\fR\ 
\fB\-c\fR\ 
\fI/path/to/search.cfg\fR
.PP
You may also use the init.d scripts:
.PP
\fB/etc/init.d/kopano\-search\fR
[\fIstart\fR|
\fIstop\fR|
\fIrestart\fR|
\fIreload\fR]
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fBkopano-server\fR(8),
\fBkopano-search.cfg\fR(5)
