.TH "KOPANO\-MSR" "8" "November 2016" "Kopano 8" "Kopano Core user reference"
.\" http://bugs.debian.org/507673
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el       .ds Aq '
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
kopano-msr \- Kopano Multi-server Store Relocator
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP \w'\fBkopano\-msr\fR\ 'u
\fBkopano\-msr\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The kopano\-msr daemon is used to live-migrate users from one server to another, within a multi-server cluster.
.PP
Users need to be separately indicated to the daemon. To do the actual switch-over, user homeservers need to be
adjusted in the user directory (LDAP), after which kopano-admin --sync will switch to the new store.

\fBkopano-msr\fR(8).
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
The Kopano MSR program takes the following configuration options:
.PP
\fB\-\-add\fR
.RS 4
Add the user specified with \fB\-\-user\fR to the list of users to be relocated.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-config\fR, \fB\-c\fR \fIfile\fR
.RS 4
Specify the location of the configuration file.
.sp
Default:
\fI/etc/kopano/msr.cfg\fR
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-foreground\fR, \fB\-F\fR
.RS 4
Run in the foreground. Normally the kopano\-msr process will daemonize and run in the background.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-list\-users\fR
.RS 4
List all users currently being relocated, including status information for each user.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-log\-level\fR, \fB\-l\fR \fINAME\fR
.RS 4
Specify log\-level, for example, \fBerror\fP, \fBwarning\fP, \fBinfo\fP or \fBdebug\fP.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-remove\fR
.RS 4
Remove the user specified with \fB\-\-user\fR from the list of users to be relocated. At this point,
metadata (such as permissions and rules) will be synchronized.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-server\fR
.RS 4
Specify URL of server to which user specified with \fB\-\-user\fR should be relocated.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-user\fR, \fB\-u\fR
.RS 4
Specify user. With no further options, it will show details about the user (store) as it is being relocated,
including a comparison between source and target store.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-worker\-processes\fR, \fB\-w\fR \fIN\fR
.RS 4
When relocating multiple stores, process these stores in parallel, using the specified number of workers.
.RE
.PP
When invoked without a \fB\-\-config\fR option, the kopano\-msr daemon will search for a configuration file in
/etc/kopano/msr.cfg. If no configuration file is found, default values are used. See
\fBkopano-msr.cfg\fR(5)
for all configuration options and their default values.
.SH "USAGE"
.PP
Starting kopano MSR with log-level debug (subsequent commands assume a running service):
.PP
\fBkopano\-msr\fR\ \fB\-l\fR\ debug
.PP
Adding a user \fBfritz\fR to be relocated to another server:
.PP
\fBkopano\-msr\fR\ \fB\-u\fR\ fritz \fB\-\-add\fR \fB\-\-server\fR https://destination.server:237/
.PP
Listing users currently being relocated:
.PP
\fBkopano\-msr\fR\ \fB\-\-list\-users\fR
.PP
Showing details and relocation status for user \fBfritz\fR:
.PP
\fBkopano\-msr\fR\ \fB\-u\fR fritz
.PP
Removing user from relocation list (because the target store is up-to-date), and sync metadata:
.PP
\fBkopano\-msr\fR\ \fB\-u\fR fritz \fB\-\-remove\fR
.PP
After removing a user, and changing the user homeserver to the new server node, make the actual switch:
.PP
\fBkopano\-admin\fR\ \fB\-\-sync\fR
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fBkopano-server\fR(8),
\fBkopano-msr.cfg\fR(5)
