.TH "KOPANO\-PASSWD" "1" "November 2016" "Kopano 8" "Kopano Core user reference"
.\" http://bugs.debian.org/507673
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el       .ds Aq '
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
kopano-passwd \- Change Kopano user password.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP \w'\fBkopano\-passwd\fR\ 'u
\fBkopano\-passwd\fR \fIACTION\fR [\fIOPTION\fR...]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
This tool can be used to change a user password. The storage server must be running for
\fBkopano\-passwd\fR
to work.
.PP
If no action is given, an error message is printed. When invalid actions or not enough options for an action are given, an error message is printed.
.PP
The Kopano passwd works only with the dbplugin. Please see the
\fBEXTERNAL USERS\fR()
section for more information.
.SH "ACTIONS"
.PP
kopano\-passwd needs an action command with the appropriate options. Valid actions are:
.PP
\fB\-u\fR \fIusername\fR
.RS 4
Update the password. Valid parameters are:
[\fB\-p\fP]
and
\fB\-o\fP
.sp
Default the password can be entered on the password prompt. The password will not be shown.
.RE
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
The options used by actions are as follows:
.PP
\fB\-p\fR \fInew_password\fP
.RS 4
Set new password for a user. This option is only valid with the
\fB\-o\fP.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-o\fR \fIoldpassword\fR
.RS 4
old password of a user. This option is only valid with the
\fB\-p\fP.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-host\fR, \fB\-h\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Connect to the storage server through
\fIpath\fR, e.g.
\fIfile:///path/to/socket\fP or \fIhttps://a.example:237/\fP.
This option can always be specified.
.PP
Default: \fIfile:///var/run/kopano/server.sock\fP
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fBkopano-server\fR(8),
\fBkopano-server.cfg\fR(5)
