.TH "kopano\-admin.cfg" "5" "2019" "Kopano 8" "Kopano Groupware Core user reference"
.\" http://bugs.debian.org/507673
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el       .ds Aq '
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH Name
kopano\-admin.cfg \(em Configuration file for administrative utilities
.SH Description
.PP
The file consists of a single section. The parameters are written in the form:
.PP
\fBname\fP = \fIvalue\fP
.PP
The file is line-based. Each newline-terminated line represents either a
comment, nothing, a parameter or a directive. A line beginning with \fB#\fP is
considered a comment, and will be ignored. Parameter names are case-sensitive.
Lines beginning with \fB!\fP are directives.
.PP
Directives are written in the form:
.PP
!\fBdirective\fP \fI[argument(s)]\fP
.PP
The following directives exist:
.PP
\fBinclude\fR
.RS 4
Include and process
\fIargument\fR
.PP
Example: \fB!include common.cfg\fP
.SH Option list
.SS server_socket
.PP
Unix socket to find the connection to the Kopano server.
.PP
Default: \fIfile:///var/run/kopano/server.sock\fP
.SS sslkey_file
.PP
Use this file as key to logon to the server. This is only used when
\fBserver_socket\fP is set to an HTTPS transport. See the
\fBkopano\-server\fR(8) manual page on how to setup SSL keys.
.PP
Default: (unset)
.SS sslkey_pass
.PP
The password of the SSL key file that is set in sslkey_file.
.PP
Default: (unset)
.SS default_store_locale
.PP
New folders being created as part of the initial store creation (see
kopano\-storeadm \-C) will use the language of the locale. A suitable locale
string is in the form of an ISO 639 code for the language, followed by an
underscore, followed by an ISO 3166 code for the region, e.g. de_DE, en_US,
etc.
.PP
Default: (empty)
.SH "See also"
.PP
\fBkopano\-admin\fP(8), \fBkopano\-srvadm\fP(8), \fBkopano\-storeadm\fP(8)
